So continuing with building our new car provider component let's set up remove item and are clear item
from cart.
And then in the end we'll also set up cart items count so we've already done add item and we know it's
going to be pretty much the same thing except with our remove item from cart.
So what we know is that this function is going to be called remove item.
It's going to get an item it's going to set the cart.
Items that we currently store in the local state of cart provider except what we want to sell it to
is the array that we get back from the remove item from cart function call passing in cart items and
the item and then we're just going to pass remove item in as a function value to the value object that
we're passing into our car context provider with this are remove item should work.
In fact if we go to our actual checkout item we can actually modify it so that we can see it in action.
So instead of getting ad item and remove item from redux we want to get it from our new context so we're
going to bring any use context and then we're going to bring in the cart content
and this of course comes from our provider's folder cart provider and then we're just going to d structure
off our add item and remove item from the context value that we get back from saying use context with
cart context.
Now we do have to make sure that we have not replaced anything that we need.
So here we see that we are no longer pulling in add item and remove item from our map dispatch the props
but we haven't written our clear item yet so we can keep this here.
Let's just remove the appropriate code here and then our checkout item should be working so here we
see in our checkout item that we are inside but we are still leveraging cart items that come from redux.
So let's modify our actual checkout page to also use our new cart items so as you've probably gotten
familiar with now we're bringing in the use context hook we're bringing in our actual cart context from
provider's cart provider and then we just gotta make sure we're doing the correct return.
Now the total is actually going to be another thing that we need to add but I'm going to leave that
for you as an exercise.
So there's total value right now is coming from our redux but you're going to know how to actually change
it as well.
When we do the car items count and it's a good time for you to practice.
So let's remove our car items from here.
We don't need to select anymore and that's actually good enough for now.
Now what we're going to pull off is carte items from our car context.
In fact now we should have an empty array which we do.
So what we'll do is we will add this in and if I hit this checkout I actually should see an error.
So I do this is because we're still using dispatch which we're no longer leveraging for toggling the
hidden value.
So we actually need to modify our cart dropdown as well so with our cart dropdown we know that we are
leveraging dispatch that we no longer have access to because we're not using connect anymore.
So instead of dispatching toggle cart hidden we're just going to pull off the toggle cart hit in value
that we have on our context.
But I think we're calling it toggle hidden.
So let's just make that change here.
So now if we add in these cart items if we go to check out everything still works and in fact we see
that our remove item code is working and it's reflecting inside of our car dropdown and just like that
we've replaced redux with our context API in a very efficient manner.
The only thing is that we've also learned how it is to use the provider pattern in order to actually
make this look more efficient.
So this is a really great thing.
In fact let's keep going.
Let's replace the clear item inside of our car context as well.
So not in our car context but our car provider.
We need to use this clear item from cart.
Now in order for us to do this we need to actually define the utility function that will help us clear
an item and we actually currently have the code related to it in our cart reducer so whenever this clear
item from cart comes in we end up calling this dot filter method so we can copy this go into our cart
utilize inside of our provider and make a new function.
We're going to call this function filter item from cart and it's going to be equal to a function that
gets cart items as well as the item that we're trying to remove and it's going to call cart items dot
filter using the method that we had and copied from our reducer except instead of action a payload that
I.D. it's just going to be item I.D. And we want to make sure to export this.
So let's copy this and bring this into our actual car provider and let's just add this to our cart utilize
and then let's define the function.
Now the function is going to be called cost clear item from cart being the same name that we have defined
in our context.
And it's going to be equal to a function that gets the item and just as you've guessed with our add
item and remove item because it is trying to set our car items.
We're going to call set cart items passing our filter item from cart with our cart items and our item
that we're trying to remove we'll pass this in to our value in our context provider.
And now we have our ability to clear the item from a cart.
We just have to add this to our checkout item and we can just add it like this
and now if we check inside of our application we of course have to add some items and if we hit the
remove we clear the item.
So this is working we now just have to finish up with our cart item count and the way we actually update
our cart item count is we want to make sure inside of our cart provider object that when ever this cart
items value changes we fire often a fact that is going to update the cart item count that we currently
have and luckily for us we've set it up locally already so all we have to do is just write the effect.
Now we do need to actually get that item count and we actually currently have the code for it inside
of our selectors because our selector code is what can get the item count.
So pulling off this function here we can add it to our cart utilize and we can call it export cost get
cart items count so this will be equal to us just getting our cart items and then returning cart items
dot reduce.
So in fact we didn't even need to write car items and this will give us back the numerical value of
the total quantity so we just got to bring this in here.
And then make sure we fire in effect whenever cart items updates so we can easily do this with our use
affect.
By passing a function that will call set cart items count with the actual cart items value.
So using get cart items count passing in cart items will give us the actual value of the number of quantity
of items we have which will set then locally to the car.
Items count.
Value.
And in order for us to make sure this effect fires whenever car items updates we pass in that dependency
as the second argument to our effect and now we just have to actually bring in this car.
Items count to the cart icon that needs it so because we're already using the context we'll make sure
that item count comes from here and not from redux.
So we can actually finally remove this map state to props as well as this connect and we can remove
all of this unnecessary code that we had that was leveraging redux before and now we see that our item
count is up to date with what we're doing with our context API.
So this is awesome because now our code is fully up to date leverage and context API instead of redux.
So what I want you to do is actually convert the remaining code that we have inside of our application
over to context API because I've shown you pretty much all of the patterns that you need in order to
actually do this.
The main one is that you also can set the total as well now that we have in our checkout page by doing
the same thing we did with this effect so anywhere you see a connector we're using redux just modify
it so that we're now using our existing context API code that we've learned how to write and hopefully
in the process you'll definitely learn how to leverage context API as well.
Now I want you to do it and I'm gonna provide you with two links one link is going to be all of the
code that we've written up until this point and the other link is going to have the entire application
fully converted in case you want the solution for everything that I've written regarding converting
the application over and using context now in the next lesson I'm going to talk about some of my parting
thoughts on context API because this will mark the end of our context API lessons but hopefully by doing
so you've learned the newest feature of what react introduced with context API as well as some pretty
advanced patterns and how you can use it inside of your existing and future application.
So good luck with the exercise if you want to clone down what we've got from here just use one of the
links that you'll see in the resources below.
Otherwise you can just skip to the actual final solution which I will also provide you as a link.
So good luck everybody and I'll see you in the next lesson.